# NET 602

so this class has started well, currently waiting to set up a bootable USB for me to install windows server on a machine.

used daniels bootable which was great using *ventoy* which pretty much has multiple bootable os options. cheers

## password for my server is: 
Thepasswordis42

## info i used to setup the server:
[Setup](https://social.technet.microsoft.com/wiki/contents/articles/52765.windows-server-2019-step-by-step-setup-active-directory-environment-using-powershell.aspx)

## local addresses

| Ipv4 | Subnet Mask | Default |
| ---- | :---------: | ------: |
| 10.60.1.3 | 255.255.252.0 | 10.60.0.1 |

# Second Day 21/July/21

Continue setting up the Server Client and Host

So i followed the instructions on the siteand added a new net ip address
|name | value |
|-----|-------|
| IPAddress | 192.168.1.10 |
| Address Fam | IPv4 |
| InterfaceIndex | 6 |
| Gateway | 291.168.1.1 |

then proceeded to add the required roles:
1. AD-Domain-Services
2. DHCP
3. DNS
4. Print-Services

and the management tools are set to be included

When i used Install-ADDSForest i added domain name as DC and netBiosDomain name as DC1

The site i used to setup this server is

[Powershell Win Server Setup](https://4sysops.com/archives/configuring-windows-server-2019-essentials-with-powershell/)


I used --- Get-WindowsFeature | Where-Object {$_. installstate -eq "installed"} Format-List Name,Installstate | more --- to check what roles are installed currently.




### What is a domain?
A domain refers to a group of users, devices, printers, and database servers that share different types of data via network resources.

A domain has a domain controller which is the controller that governs all basic domain functions and manages the network security.

A domain is used to manage all user functions including username/password and shared system resource authentication and access. 

A domain is also used to assign specific resource privileges such as user accounts.

